```
  ######   ##    ##
 ##    ##  ##   ##
 ##        ##  ##
  ######   #####
       ##  ##  ##
 ##    ##  ##   ##
  ######   ##    ##
```

# Discovering Post-Rock
2023-08-11 | #music #post-rock #thoughts

Over the last few days, I've discovered that I enjoy post-rock music; more specifically, I enjoy the thoughts and feelings that I have while listening to it. The common structure of post-rock songs involves a quiet, repetitive beginning and a massive climax formed by mounting numerous sounds and rhythms atop a continuous melodic thread. This structure lends itself well to contemplation and introspection. At  the quiet, repetitious start, I begin to think of something--anything, really--and the music gives me the space to hone in on that thought. As the melody develops and new sounds come into the mix, the music challenges my thoughts, and I begin to see alternative perceptions. I start seeing common threads and making connections among a universe of ideas, and the music gains energy to match. The thoughts, feelings, and ideas all start merging into one cohesive understanding, just as the layers of sound join together in harmony. At this point, I feel in control of my mind; I feel on top of the world, and cli
max of the song validates my emotions. After my breakthrough in thought, I begin to retrospect on my adventure, and again the music provides space for this by returning to its quieter roots. At this point, I pause to decide whether to move to the next song, repeat the adventure again, or merely stop and let the experience linger for a little while in silence.

I'm not saying that post-rock is the only way to have this experience, or that others will have an even remotely similar connection to it as I do. All I'm saying is that right now, at this point in my life, I've come to appreciate this one kind of music in this way, and I'm happy about it. I'll take that as a win.

Here are some of the songs I've been listening to, in order of how emotionally impactful listening to them is for me:
* Goodnight, So Long by Saxon Shore (Album: It Doesn't Matter)
* Silence Lends a Face to the Soul by Saxon Shore (Album: The Exquisite Death of Saxon Shore)
* Untitled #1 by Sigur Ros (Album: ())
* In the Nothing of a Night by Hammock (Album: Chasing After Shadows... Living With the Ghosts)
* Piano Aquieu by Stars of the Lid (Album: The Tired Sounds of Stars of the Lid)
* Fragile by God Is Astronaut (Album: All Is Violent, All Is Bright)
* All Is Violent, All Is Bright by God Is an Astronaut (Album: All Is Violent, All Is Bright)

=> ../index.gml	[Gemlog Index]
=> ../../../index.gmi	[root]