```
  ######   ##    ##
 ##    ##  ##   ##
 ##        ##  ##
  ######   #####
       ##  ##  ##
 ##    ##  ##   ##
  ######   ##    ##
```

# SK's Gemini Capsule

## Introduction

Hello, I'm Stephen Kaplan. I'm an open-source software developer focused on workflow automation, desktop applications, and web development. I actively maintain several projects, including several Python packages, a list of macOS automation resources, various Raycast extensions</a>, and more. Some projects I've contributed to include rumps, a Python package for creating macOS menu-bar apps, and the Raycast Utils package for Node.js. I've also created and published a few node packages myself, and I'm currently working on a few more. In my spare time, I'm developing a few AppleScript libraries called ImageLib, PDFLib, and WebLib. I also have a YouTube channel (@helloimsteven3103) where I post videos showcasing my projects, and I'm hoping to expand it to include tutorials and other content in the future.

## My projects

### Python Packages

=> projects/pyxa/pyxa.gmi	PyXA

* Python for Automation. A wrapper around several macOS frameworks enables AppleScript-and JXA-like control over macOS applications from within Python. PyXA's objects and methods are based on applications' scripting dictionaries and coupled with additional automation features supported by Apple's macOS APIs.

=> project/macimg/macimg.gmi	macimg

* A Python package for manipulating images using Objective-C frameworks.

### Raycast Extensions

=> projects/image-modification/image-modification.gmi	Image Modification

* Raycast extension for on-the-fly image adjustments, filtering, and conversion.

=> projects/pins/pins.gmi	Pins

* Raycast extension for pinning links, files, folders, apps, scripts, and more to the macOS menu bar.

=> projects/promptlab/promptlab.gmi	PromptLab

* Raycast extension for creating and sharing powerful, contextually-aware AI commands using placeholders, action scripts, and more.

## Sub-sites

=> applescript/applescript.gmi	AppleScript
=> cheatsheets/cheatsheets.gmi	Cheatsheets
=> jxa/jxa.gmi	JXA
=> projects/projects.gmi	Projects

## Other Places to Find Me

=> https://s.kaplan.sdf.org/	My Homepage
=> gopher://sdf.org/1/users/s.kaplan	My Gopherspace

=> https://github.com/SKaplanOfficial	GitHub Profile
=> https://www.linkedin.com/in/stephen-kaplan-8168baa2/	LinkedIn Profile
=> https://www.npmjs.com/settings/helloimsteven/packages	NPM Profile
=> https://www.raycast.com/HelloImSteven Raycast Developer Profile
=> https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvFD3iYysFzkv1IYo1ugFfw	YouTube Channel

## Contact Me

=> mailto:s.kaplan@sdf.org	Email
